# Testing Go for Statistics (Winter 2024)
## Introduction
This assignment asked students to explore using Go for statistics. The question was framed as managers of a technology startup are keen on limiting the number of computer languages supported by the company. They would like software engineers and data scientists to work together using the same language for backend research and product development. In particular, they want to see employees using Go as their primary programming language. The managers know that Go will serve the company's needs for backend web and database servers. They know that Go is the right language for distributed service offerings on the cloud. But they are concerned that it may be difficult to convince data scientists to use Go rather than Python or R.
## Implementation
This statistical application performs a linear regression analysis on sets of x and y data points. This was implemented using Go's fmt and time package, montanaflynn's stats package, and gonum's distuv package. Using package functions, I created custom functions that calculates the slope, y-intercept, y-hat, SSE, SSTO, r-squared, adjusted r-squared, and F-statistic.
## Comparisons and Testing
Comparison data provided to me comes from Anscombe's Quartet as well as Dr. Miller's OLS analysis (written in both Python and R). I utlized Dr Miller's OLS outputs to compare my linear regression results. Unit tests for this application compares function outputs to that from Python's OLS output, including slope, y-intercept, r-squared, adjusted r-squared, and F-statistic.
## Recommendation
Given my current expertise with Go, I personally would not recommend using Go for statistics. With the recommended packages, I found them insufficient for obtaining necessary statistical values. Even to obtain the slope, I had to code a custom function to perform the calculation, which though possible, took a considerable amount of time. Python and R allows me to obtain this information with minimal coding knowledge. Additionally, much more testing needs to be conducted on these custom functions as I found they worked for some inputs but failed others (see observation y4). At this time, Python and R afford much more statistical functionality and convenience.
